[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hello.
My name's Gregg Braden.
And I'd like to welcome you
to this all-new presentation
of "The Divine Matrix--
Bridging Time, Space,
Miracles and Belief."
In the last episode,
we saw how the language
that we use in our
lives is related
to the growth of
the neurons that
determine what we
think, the way we think,
and how we relate to the matrix.
Well, in this episode, we're
going to go one step further.
We'll explore the physics of
our relationship to the matrix
and how that language opens the
door to our greatest potentials
and the greatest
possibilities of our lives.
A new physics is emerging to
reflect the new discoveries
regarding the divine matrix.
And we need a new physics,
because the conventional
physics of the past
simply cannot explain what
the experiments are showing us
and what we now know to be true
about the universe.
For example, we discovered
in previous episodes
conventional physics tells
us that only about 4%
of the universe is made of
what we call physical matter.
Well, from a
scientific perspective,
that means that 96% of the
universe is unaccounted for.
And because it is
unaccounted for,
scientists say it is missing.
They actually say 96% of
the universe is missing.
Entire reports have been
written and magazine covers
created saying just that-- that
96% of the universe is missing.
Well, based upon the
new physics and what
it's telling us about the
atom, these statistics
shouldn't be all
that surprising.
In just a few short decades,
our view of physical matter
shifted from
thinking of the atom,
for example, as a discrete
thing of electrons and protons
and neutrons that look like a
tiny solar system with planets
orbiting a sun.
Well, we've gone from
that view to a new view
of pulsing fields of
energy where electrons
are places of probabilities,
rather than things
in space and time.
Well, it's this shift that's led
to the acceptance of the idea
that the atom itself is
about 99.999999999% percent
empty space.
But from the recent
discoveries that I've
shared with you in
this series, you and I
both know that is
simply not true.
There is no empty space.
Nature doesn't like empty.
So what appears as
the empty is actually
filled to the brim with the
energy of the field, the Higgs
field, the divine matrix,
and all the potential
that that matrix holds.
Well, when we think
about this, it's
actually really good
news for you and me
because what it means is
that most of the stuff that
makes the universe, as
well as the stuff that
makes your body and
my body, that stuff--
beyond the 4% that we know
is matter, it's the matrix.
And we now know that the matrix
is a malleable field of energy.
It's a field of energy
that changes in response
to what we feed that field,
and that we have direct access
to that field through our
user interface of codes
like language and emotion.
Now, once again, I know this
is a very, very different way
of thinking about the world
and about our bodies--
on the one hand
because we are steeped
in the story of physical
matter and separation.
But on the other hand, what I'm
sharing with you right now--
it is where the leading
edge discoveries
are taking us right now.
So while these discoveries
may sound complex,
the whole process is
actually very simple,
the process of how we
interact with this matrix.
And I want to say
to you, in my years,
my decades of exploration of
the universe and the world
and my body, as
a scientist, I've
found that nature is
actually very simple.
Nature is simple.
Nature works upon
simple principles.
And it only becomes
complex when we
make it complex
through the words
that we use to describe
it, the mathematics
that we use to describe it.
So now that we've developed,
in the previous episodes,
the ideas and you and I
have a new vocabulary that
helps us to understand our
relationship to the matrix,
we can now use everything
that we have done together
to see precisely how this
act of creation works,
how we reach in to the quantum
potential of the divine matrix,
how we isolate a specific
possibility in our lives,
and how we collapse the
waves of that possibility
into the particles of
our everyday lives.
Here's what I mean.
If you consider the image that
you're seeing on your screen
right now, on the left hand
side, what you're seeing
is a representation of a field
of energy that's in motion.
Now, in the quantum world,
this represents potential.
But you can see that
the motion is behaving
in a very specific way.
Can you see on the
screen how the energy
seems to be imploding, OK?
The energy is
moving from outward.
And it's being directed
inward, toward the center.
If that's not clear to you,
the second image on your screen
may help to see by comparison.
This is also representing
energy in the matrix.
It's representing
quantum possibilities.
But can you see
what's happening?
Can you see how
the energy appears
to be emerging from a central
source and moving outward?
And when you look at
these two images together,
they are a very good, a
very accurate representation
of precisely what's happening in
the divine matrix all around us
in our lives all the time in
the field that surrounds us,
the field that we are part of.
Remember, every atom of your
body, every atom in my body--
it's not like
we're in the field.
We are emerging constantly
from this field.
It's a dynamic state, all right?
So if you consider this field
that we are emerging from,
that we're interacting with,
from the perspective of what
I'm saying to you right
now, all possibilities
already exist in this field.
All possibilities already
exist as quantum potential.
It's kind of like saying, there
really isn't anything new.
It's all already been created
as potential in the field.
All right, so
here's what happens.
You and I, when we choose
to create something new
in our lives, when we
choose to heal our bodies,
when we hold the image in our
mind of what it is that we
choose to create, the act of
holding the image in our minds
is the act of us reaching into
the potential of this field,
of the divine matrix.
We're literally reaching
in on an energetic level
in the presence of all
of these possibilities.
And we're finding the one
that we now have created
to focus upon, all right?
And once we find that, I want
to show you what happens.
The next image that
you see on your screen
is also a field of
energy, all right?
But can you see
how this field is
different than the other two?
The one on the left, the
energy is imploding inward.
The one in the center
now, the energy
is emerging from the center.
I'm going to ask
you to ask yourself,
what's happening to the one
that you see on the far right?
Is it imploding inward?
No.
Is it emerging from the center?
It's pulsing in place.
That is the secret to
creating in the divine matrix.
That's the secret to
reaching into the potential,
grabbing that
potential in your life,
and isolating that
potential and making it
into something that is real,
because what you're seeing
right now, the energy
that is pulsing in place,
that is the energy of an atom.
So an atom is a field of energy.
It's not imploding inward.
It's not emerging
out from within.
It is vibrating.
It's pulsing in place.
That is the energy that is
represented as physical matter
in our world.
So now we've gone
from quantum potential
to physical reality in our
world and in our lives.
So what we have in
our imagination--
and there are different
ways that we're
conditioned to imagine.
Prayer is a form of imagination.
When we are asking
for a possibility
to be fulfilled in our
lives, what we're asking
is for the ability to reach
into that field of quantum
potential, isolate that
possibility-- our healing,
or the healing of
our loved ones,
or our perfect relationship,
or the abundance or success,
or whatever it is in our lives.
What we're doing
is we're reaching
into that field of potential
where all things are in motion,
all those possibilities.
It's like, oh, there's
my perfect relationship.
Oh, there it goes, because
look at what's happening.
It's in motion.
Or, there's my healing.
But oh, look--
well, it's fleeting.
Where did it go?
Because it's in motion.
We are the only form of
life that we're aware of,
right now, that are given
the gift of consciously--
in a moment in time--
choosing to reach
into this state of
energetic potential
to collapse the waves of what
is possible into something that
is real.
And it's represented by
the atom in our lives.
So another way of
saying this-- there
are different ways of
looking at what we're doing.
If you're a scientist, what you
would say is that in the field
are the scalar
potentials, scalar waves.
And it's when we
reach in and isolate
those they become the
vector reality of our lives.
Or if that sounds too
complicated, what you say
is we reach in with
the possibility
of a wish or a prayer.
And the reality is the outcome
of that wish or that prayer.
What I've just shared with
you is an explanation,
an illustration of a very
famous principle that was
demonstrated-- the first time
in 1801 and again in 1927--
in the realm of physics, an
experiment that is famously
called the double-slit
experiment.
And that double-slit
experiment is illustrating
the potential of us interacting
with the energy in this field.
In the double slit experiment--
I'll just summarize
it very briefly--
what scientists found was when
they direct a beam of light
through a shield that has
two openings, two slits,
the light will go through
both of those slits.
And it will appear as
an interference pattern
on a target on the
other side of the shield
only until the light beam
is observed in some way.
And the observation
can be a human eye.
It can be a machine.
It can be a camera
that's watching it.
And when the light is observed,
what the scientists found--
and this is the mystery.
And this is also
illustrating the potential
that I've just shared with you.
When that light, when the
energy of those photons,
that quantum energy is observed,
it changes its character
from waves that are going
through both of those slits
to particles.
And it changes the way that
that energy is illustrated
upon the screen of the target.
The act of observation is having
a direct effect upon the light.
The light "knows"-- and I'm
going to put that in quotes.
The light "knows" that
it's being observed.
And as it's being
observed, it collapses
from the wave
expression of itself
into the particle
expression of itself.
So this is the
scientific experiment--
and also the quandary
and the mystery--
that illustrates the principle
that I've just shared
and that we saw
illustrated on our screen.
So just to be absolutely
clear, what I'm saying
is that when we create in
the field, in the matrix--
either consciously
or subconsciously--
what we think of as
making something happen
is better described as us
choosing an outcome that
already exists in a field
of many possible outcomes
by collapsing the infinite
possibilities of the matrix
into the finite experience
of a single choice.
And that choice becomes part
of the 4% of the universe
that we see as physical matter.
Now, this is true for the
healing of our bodies.
It's true for the changes
that we bring into the world.
It's true for the
changes that you
create in your
relationships, changes
you create in your life.
And this is where you and your
choice of language comes in.
Because the science shows us
that the observation fueled
by emotion is what
translates the possibilities,
the quantum
possibilities the field,
into the physical reality
of our bodies and our world.
So the idea of the quantum
possibilities in our lives,
and the way they move from
potential into reality
through our interacting
with the field--
it opens the door to
even another possibility.
And it references
an idea that we
talked about in a previous
episode of this series.
Those quantum potentials--
the word "quanta,"
it is a packet of light.
But that packet of light is
not a solid beam of light.
The packet is a
periodic pulse of light.
We live in an
intermittent reality.
What we think of as
solid reality-- when
you look at me on
this camera, I'm
hoping that to
you, I look solid.
But the reason I look solid is
because every atom of my body
is emerging from
the field as pulses
of energy, little packets
that are called quanta.
Each pulse is called a quanta.
And this is where quantum
physics comes from.
And it's happening so quickly
that your brain is actually
taking what your eyes are
seeing-- your eyes see
the intermittent pulses.
Your eyes can see this.
And some people are
actually trained--
I've been with Tibetan
monks who are able to see
these individual pulses.
And the world looks
very different to them.
It's a very shimmering reality.
But your brain takes
what your eyes see
and your brain
averages all of those
pulses into a single,
constant, continuous stream
of information that
makes me appear to you
as a solid physical being.
Well, there's a lot
of really good news
in what I'm saying here.
This pulse reality,
it tells us where
the action is, as I mentioned
in the previous episode.
The action is in the
space between the pulses.
It's in the space between.
It means that any
possible reality only
exists until the pulse ends.
And then there's a
point in between where
that reality isn't present.
And it's not present--
it's neither.
And then the next
pulse will continue
to express the reality,
the previous pulse,
unless something changes it.
Well, it's pretty
much impossible
for you and I to go in and time
the pulse between one quanta
burst and another.
And that's why
we, instead, adapt
a way of thinking and feeling.
We fuel our imagination with
the power of human emotion.
And we create-- we
set in the place
a wave that is present
when the pulse ends
and the next one begins
in that space in between.
And the wave is already there.
And this is really good news
when it comes to you and me,
because if there is
something in our lives
that we would like to change--
we'd like a physical
healing in our bodies--
it is our ability to interact
with this pulse reality that
produces what medical
doctors and scientists often
call spontaneous
healings or miracles.
There's nothing in the
scientific literature
as it is today and is taught
in our universities that
makes room for this kind of
interaction within the body.
So when we see the
spontaneous healings that
we all have heard of--
and I've shared some with you
throughout "The Divine Matrix."
I've shared them with
you in "Missing Links."
I actually shared a
video in Season One
of one of these healings.
When scientists and
medical doctors see these,
they have to say either that
they originally misdiagnosed
what was happening or
that what has happened
is attributed to what
they call a miracle.
Well, it's only a miracle--
a miracle is only
a miracle until we
understand how it works.
And once we understand
how that miracle works,
maybe it doesn't sound quite
as romantic as a miracle.
But it becomes a technology,
becomes something
that we can replicate
again and again and again.
Well, we work this way.
Our lives, our bodies, and
our world work this way.
So what does this mean?
It tells us that we
have the opportunity
to make these changes.
Now, I want to share
something with you.
And my live audiences
find this fascinating.
Our bodies-- you know that our
bodies regenerate themselves
constantly.
In about a year--
365 days-- we become new people.
But we don't become new
people all at the same time.
Different parts of
our body regenerate
in different periods of time.
And I'd like to go through just
some specific organs and tissue
and DNA and give you an example
of what I'm talking about here,
because the fact that we
are constantly regenerating
means that the
pattern that gives us
what we are in the moment
is not set in stone.
It is constantly changing.
And we have the opportunity in
those periods of regeneration--
if we like what we have, we
don't need to do anything.
If we don't like
what we have, if we'd
like to change into a healthier
expression of ourselves,
then we can create the field
through our thoughts, feelings,
emotions.
And in the next
episode, we're going
to begin talking about the
actual techniques to do this.
So we're laying the foundation
and the segue for that
so that what we do in the
future episodes makes sense.
We'll tie it back
into this episode.
Again, we're building
a vocabulary.
And we're building a
common understanding
so that we are empowered.
And that's my goal, is to
empower you, to empower you
through this new wisdom.
So when we hold the image in
our mind of our perfect healing,
and then we fuel that image
through empowered emotion,
the emotion is what
gives the image the power
to collapse that
possibility into a particle.
What we're doing is we're
creating the blueprint that
now becomes the blueprint
for the next iteration
of whatever's happening
in the matrix.
And for this conversation,
I'm talking about what's
happening within our bodies.
So I'm going to
invite you to look
at the image on the screen.
I want to go through just a
few of the key organs and share
with you how quickly--
in what periods of time--
they typically regenerate.
So what you're
seeing on your screen
is an illustration of
some of the key places
in the body where this
regeneration happens.
DNA, for example, renews
itself every two months.
Every two months of
our lives, the DNA
is replicating in a way
that allows a new template
to be put into place.
So what that means is, if
you're happy with your body
and you're happy with the
expression of your DNA,
there's no need to do anything.
If your body is
showing you something
that you'd like to
change or something
that medical doctors are
saying that you must change,
this is an opportunity.
It's the potential-- it's
another way of thinking,
a very different
way of thinking--
of going in and
changing that template,
changing the blueprint for the
next expression of your DNA.
Your skin rebuilds
itself in about a month.
Your liver rebuilds
itself in about six weeks.
Your brain-- you have a brand
new brain after about one year.
And this is so interesting to me
because when I was in school--
once again, back in 1950s,
'60s, and early '70s--
I was taught that there
are certain organs
and certain tissues in the human
body that do not regenerate.
Now we know, every
organ in the human body
has the ability to regenerate
and replicate and heal itself,
even the organs and the tissues
we were told could not--
brain tissue, spinal cord
tissue, pancreatic tissue,
for example.
Your blood-- your blood rebuilds
itself in about four months.
Now, I'm being really careful
about what I'm saying here.
When you give blood--
for example, you have blood
drawn for medical tests--
the blood serum replenishes
itself very quickly.
But the red blood cells--
it takes about four
months for the blood cells
to actually rebuild itself.
So the volume replaces
itself quicker.
But the actual red blood cells
take a little bit longer.
Your bones?
Your bones-- you build a whole
new skeleton in about 90 days,
in about three months.
So from these examples, we can
see how the growth of our body
is intermittent.
It's not solid.
It's not continuous.
It's not constant.
There are cycles.
And if we know how
those cycles work,
and if we know those cycles
are based upon a pulse reality
and if we understand our
relationship to that reality,
we are empowered to participate.
I'm being very clear
with this word.
We're not talking about control.
I'm not talking about
manipulation of the human body.
I'm talking about
you consciously
participating with the health
and the healing of the vehicle
that gives you the
opportunity to express
your love in this world.
So now that we understand
this intermittent reality,
this pulse reality that
is expressed as our bodies
in the world, the
question becomes,
how do we actually interact?
How do we change that blueprint
of our body, or of the world
beyond our body?
A scientific paper
published in the year 2004
gives us the clue
for precisely this.
It was published in the
"Journal of Alternative
and Complementary Medicine,"
volume 10, number 1,
in the year 2004.
So you can go and check
this out for yourself.
But I'd like to read to
you directly a quote that
is in the conclusion of the
experiments in the studies,
because what I'm going to say
to you opens the door to all
the possibilities that
we're talking about,
and opens the door from
a scientific perspective
in a peer-reviewed journal,
rather than metaphor
or hypothesis or conjecture.
So this is why I think
this is so important.
So the paper states--
and this is a quote--
"there is compelling evidence to
suggest that the physical heart
is coupled to a field of
information that is not
bound by the classical limits of
time and space," end of quote.
Wow.
So what that is saying is
that within our hearts--
as we've discovered
throughout this series,
"Missing Links," we have cells.
We have sensory neurites,
brain-like cells
that function in a way
that give us an opportunity
to transcend the laws of
physics as we know them today.
Our intuition, our
emotion, our love
is not bound by the conventional
laws of physics in this world.
We transcend those laws when
we understand this principle,
and when we understand how
to work with the heart.
And language is a key to this.
This is why I shared the episode
about language in this series
before we get to the place
where we are right now.
This is where language comes in.
The words that we choose are the
codes that direct our neurons
to reach into the field
of all possibilities--
into the quantum matrix,
into the divine matrix--
and once again, to collapse
those many potentials
into the single
discrete experience
that we have chosen
in our lives.
So the question becomes,
what language are you using?
What language are you using
to direct your relationship
with the divine matrix?
What words do you use
in your conversations,
in your interactions with
people, day in and day out?
Do you use your
words consciously?
Or are they unconscious?
Are you saying
things subconsciously
to the field that you
would never intentionally
say in a million years?
And when you hear
things like this--
there was a brilliant man
that I studied with years ago,
Robert Tennyson
Stevens, who brought
the ideas of
conscious languaging
forward in the 20th
century in a way that
had not been done since the
time of Benjamin Lee Whorf.
And I remember some
of the examples
that Robert Stevens
gave to us, and things
that we say everyday.
What if everything that
you speak with your words
is actually a
command to the field?
What if every word is a
command, even the things
that we say-- oh, we're just
kidding, or we're just joking?
How many times do we say,
oh, that really cracks me up,
when you're laughing
about something?
Do you really want to be
saying that to the field?
How many times do people
say, oh, this is to die for.
I would die for this.
Is that really what you want
to be saying to the field?
I could give you examples--
and I do in the books and in
a lot of our live interactions
in our workshops-- of
people who have experienced
precisely what it is that
they're saying into the field.
It's very common in the
entertainment industry,
before someone goes onstage,
for the people behind you
to say, break a leg.
I cannot tell you how many times
that has happened to people.
And as they're walking
onto the stage--
or in one case, actually
already on the stage--
and the speaker
literally walked off
of the back of the stage, what
he thought was solid ground.
And I can't scientifically
connect that experience
of him literally
walking off the stage
and breaking a leg to what
happened behind the stage.
But the parallels are so close.
So what I have
learned to do now,
when I am backstage--
myself and my friends--
if someone comes up and says to
us, break a leg, I'll say, no.
Heal a heart.
And we'll walk out on the stage.
And now I'm going to stages
where I've never been.
And the people backstage
are saying to me,
hey, heal a heart.
So it's making the rounds.
It's having an effect.
And it's a very,
very conscious way
of thinking about ourselves.
But I'm going to invite
you to think about this.
Affirmations are very popular
in our culture right now.
And the idea of an affirmation--
I think it can be
potentially useful.
However, to simply say the
same thing a bajillion times
in a day may not
always have the impact
if we're not saying it within
the brain state and the heart
state that allows
what we're saying
to be interpreted in a
meaningful way by the matrix.
The next episode, we're
going to talk about this.
But I want to give
you some examples.
These are common affirmations.
I'm not criticizing the authors.
I'm not criticizing
the affirmation.
These people were
very well-intentioned.
But based on what you
and I are doing right now
and what you now
know to be true,
I'm going to invite you to
listen these affirmations
and see where they
could be stronger.
Now I've chosen-- you're
seeing them on the screen.
These are some cards, popular
cards from an affirmation deck.
Look at what the first one
is saying-- "new balance is
coming to my body now."
"New balance is coming
to my body now."
The second one--
"I'm ready to enjoy
perfect health."
Or the third one--
"I am willing to release old
patterns and negative beliefs."
Let's start with that third one.
"I'm willing to release old
patterns and negative beliefs."
If the universe, if the field,
if the matrix is hearing that,
what is the matrix hearing?
The matrix is hearing--
OK, you're ready.
And you're ready.
But there is no outcome.
When is it actually
going to happen?
So the universe says,
OK, you can be ready.
And you can be ready.
It doesn't mean that
it's going to happen.
"I am ready to enjoy perfect
health"-- the same thing.
The universe says, wow, we're
really glad you're ready.
That's a good place to be.
Let us know when you
want it to happen,
because it's not
in the affirmation.
The first one-- "new balance
is coming to my body"--
if you stop there, it
would be open-ended.
The first one says, "new balance
is coming to my body now."
So there's an outcome.
It's happening in the moment.
Now, you might say
these are subtle
and that I'm dividing hairs.
What I want to say to you is
that our words are powerful.
And our words, as you saw
in the previous episode,
are the result of
the compression
of the air within our bodies
to create the acoustic wave
forms that we emit
into the divine matrix.
And they have an effect.
So I'm going to invite
you to think about what
you're saying to the field.
What are you saying
to the matrix?
And where it makes sense, maybe
change up that communication.
Change up that code
just a little bit.
I know what I'm saying to
you is a very different way
of thinking.
Once again, it's very
different from the way
you and I have been led
to think about ourselves
and our relationship
to the world.
It's a very different
way for science to think
about us and our reality.
But I also know this--
what I'm saying to you,
what I'm sharing with you--
the leading-edge discoveries,
the leading-edge research,
and the rock-solid science--
it's also the key to the
next step in human evolution.
We are moving from powerless
victims of life circumstances
to self-empowered masters of
our own internal technology.
In the next episode, we'll
discover the technique
to create an advanced
brain state that
optimizes our greatest
potential just for such mastery.
I want to thank you for
joining me for today's program.
And be sure to tune in for
our next all-new episode--
"The Divine Matrix--
Bridging Time, Space,
Miracles and Belief."